Adding docs for native mint/burn gas token (#2995)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/launch-arbitrum-chain/02-configure-your-chain/common/validation-and-security/enable-mint-burn-for-gas-token.mdx

---

> title: 'Enable native mint/burn for Arbitrum chain gas token'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Use native interop token with mint/burn as your Arbitrum chain gas token'
```

> sidebar_label: 'Enable native mint/burn for Arbitrum chain gas token'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: 'Use native interop token with mint/burn as your Arbitrum chain gas token'
```

description: 'Learn how use a native interop token with mint/burn (such as LayerZero OFT, xERC-20, or native USDC) as your Arbitrum chain gas token'
user_story: 'As a developer or researcher of the Arbitrum product suite, I want to learn about using a native interop token with mint/burn for bridging of gas tokens'
content_type: release announcement
---

:::info
While Native Mint/Burn was introduced in ArbOS 41, we strongly recommend that teams upgrade to [ArbOS 51 Dia](/run-arbitrum-node/arbos-releases/arbos51) to enable this feature.
:::

> Arbitrum chains are designed to “lock and mint” the native gas token in the canonical bridge. This process ensures the child representation of the gas token is always backed by the parent chain's gas token, locked in the canonical bridge.

Reviewer: Leaving this here for this page in general (not about this paragraph)

Its a bit unclear in this page is ->
- Can this be enabled for chains that already configured a lock & mint via a normal (possibly different) ERC20 gas token (can ERC20 be migrated to a mint/burn asset or can a new different custom gas token be set)
- Can this be enabled for chains that already configured a lock & mint via a interop token like LayerZero OFT
- Can a custom gas token be added to a chain that has another

> This "lock and mint" pattern is not compatible with an emerging category of "native interop tokens." These tokens rely on cross-chain messaging layers to facilitate a "burn and mint" approach to cross-chain bridging, meaning the representative asset is burned on the source chain and minted on the destination chain. Examples of tokens with this pattern include: LayerZero OFTs, the xERC-20 standard, or stablecoins such as Circle’s USDC (possible with Circle-supplied adapter).

Author: USDT0 technically is a Layer0 OFT, but if we want to mention from a perspective of showcasing USDT along with USDC as well, we can do that.

> This "lock and mint" pattern is not compatible with an emerging category of "native interop tokens." These tokens rely on cross-chain messaging layers to facilitate a "burn and mint" approach to cross-chain bridging, meaning the representative asset is burned on the source chain and minted on the destination chain. Examples of tokens with this pattern include: LayerZero OFTs, the xERC-20 standard, or stablecoins such as Circle’s USDC (possible with Circle-supplied adapter).

Reviewer 2: dont care, either way works!

3. A collateral-sweeping method to ensure the 3rd-party native interop token’s cross-chain adapter contract always remains properly collateralized.

:::important
The Native Mint/Burn feature permits mint & burn capability of the rollup’s native gas token by a permissioned address on the rollup. It does not provide a solution for cross-chain interoperability and is not a replacement for 3rd-party omni-chain gas token products provided by partners such as LayerZero or Hyperlane. The table below helps to clarify the components needed to enable the use cases below.
:::

| Component                                           | Maintainer                                         | Role/purpose                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| :-------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **ArbOS/Nitro (consensus-v51)**                     | Offchain Labs                                      | • Precompile `ArbNativeTokenManager`<br/>• Owner allowlist and 7-day timelock<br/>• Node rule that blocks value-bearing withdrawals while an owner is present                                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **ArbOS/Nitro (consensus-v51 or higher)**                     | Offchain Labs                                      | • Precompile `ArbNativeTokenManager`<br/>• Owner allowlist and 7-day timelock<br/>• Node rule that blocks value-bearing withdrawals while an owner is present                                        |
```
